= remus

* http://github.com/touristofreality/remus

== What are you, Remus?

Remus is a syntax highlighter.  Remus was inspired by not wanting to do homework, the awesome Python syntax highlighter {Pygments}[http://pygments.org/], and it takes some ideas from the RubyGem {syntax}[http://syntax.rubyforge.org/].

== Goods and Bads:

=== Yays:

* Can return in Terminal colors, or HTML spans.
* Can understand complex things like PHP heredocs.
* Can highlight embedded regions, like CSS in HTML.
* Simple language definition syntax, lightweight Lexer files.

=== Uh ohs:

* Currently, there is no namespacing for tokens, which could lead to problems with languages like PHP, where it is embedded in HTML

== How to use Remus?

=== How to have Remus?

    sudo gem install remus
    
=== What Remus needs?

* hoe

=== Remus in action:
    

    $ remus [options] [code]

(options include language, and token class)

alternatively: Remus can highlight a file

    $ remus [options] -f path/to/file

_or_: inside ruby

    puts Remus.convert( string, language = :plain_text, options = {} )

alternatively: inside ruby from a file

    puts Remus.convert_from_file( filename, options )

=== How to use Remus more ninja-ly?

    $ echo 'This is to be highlighted' | remus [options]

== How to make more awesome Remus?
    
=== Need doing:
  
* namespacing for languages.
* maybe create a better callback syntax.
* expand documentation.
* expand HTML token class to include line numbers and stuff.

=== Possible Makers:

Pull source from github, try to follow other language examples. Please note that Remus aims at having the simplest end-user syntax.  I think something that is easy to use will be used more often.

We are accepting languages and ideas.

=== Messups and Wantings:

* http://rubyforge.org/tracker/?atid=36957&group_id=9554&func=browse
* http://rubyforge.org/tracker/?atid=36960&group_id=9554&func=browse

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 Rocky Meza and William Scales

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
