h1. Remus is a syntax highlighter.

h2. It"s gonna be pretty awesome.

h3. Where did Remus come from?

Remus was inspired by not wanting to do homework, the awesome Python syntax highglighter "pygments":http://pygments.org/, and it takes some ideas from the RubyGem "syntax":http://syntax.rubyforge.org/.

h3. Remus in action?

You could clone Remus and run the @./example@.  (requires ruby--I know it works on 1.9, I don't know about 1.8).

h3. How to use Remus?

What a wonderful yet oddly phrased question.  The basic syntax for Remus is: @Remus.convert( string )@.  This will highlight your string into plain text.  Not super useful, so a better use would be @Remus.convert( string, language )@ (the default language is plain text, perhaps not the most useful of highlighters, nevertheless, you gotta be able to highlight nothing before you can highlight something).  *Nothing is more useful than some examples:*

@Remus.convert( 'This is Plain Text' )
=>@ This is Plain Text

@Remus.convert( '<p>This is HTML</p>', :html )
=>@ ==&lt;span class=&quot;identifier&quot;&gt;&amp;lt;p&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;identifier&quot;&gt;&amp;gt;&lt;/span&gt;This is HTML&lt;span class=&quot;identifier&quot;&gt;&amp;lt;/p&amp;gt;&lt;/span&gt;==

@Remus.convert( 'color: #adf123;
  font-family: "Courier New", Courier, monospace;
}

/*
  multi-line comment
  hahaha
 */
div#id.class {
  background: #00ff00 url(\'smiley.gif\') no-repeat fixed center;
  width: 45px !important;
  height: 45%;
  /* comment */
}', :css )
=>@ ==&lt;span class=&quot;identifier&quot;&gt;color&lt;/span&gt;: &lt;span class=&quot;identifier&quot;&gt;#adf123&lt;/span&gt;;\n  &lt;span class=&quot;identifier&quot;&gt;font-family&lt;/span&gt;: &amp;quot;&lt;span class=&quot;identifier&quot;&gt;Courier&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;identifier&quot;&gt;New&lt;/span&gt;&amp;quot;, &lt;span class=&quot;identifier&quot;&gt;Courier&lt;/span&gt;, &lt;span class=&quot;identifier&quot;&gt;monospace&lt;/span&gt;;\n}\n\n&lt;span class=&quot;comment&quot;&gt;/*\n  multi-line comment\n  hahaha\n */&lt;/span&gt;\n&lt;span class=&quot;identifier&quot;&gt;div#id.class&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;punctuation&quot;&gt;{&lt;/span&gt;\n  &lt;span class=&quot;variable&quot;&gt;background:&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;number&quot;&gt;#00ff00&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;string&quot;&gt;url('smiley.gif')&lt;/span&gt; no-repeat fixed center&lt;span class=&quot;variable&quot;&gt;;&lt;/span&gt;\n  &lt;span class=&quot;variable&quot;&gt;width:&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;number&quot;&gt;45px&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;keyword&quot;&gt;!important&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;variable&quot;&gt;;&lt;/span&gt;\n  &lt;span class=&quot;variable&quot;&gt;height:&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span class=&quot;number&quot;&gt;45%&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;variable&quot;&gt;;&lt;/span&gt;\n  &lt;span class=&quot;comment&quot;&gt;/* comment */&lt;/span&gt;\n&lt;span class=&quot;punctuation&quot;&gt;}&lt;/span&gt;==

h3. How to use Remus more ninja-ly?

@Remus.convert( string, language, { :token_class => :sh } )@ will return output that is colorized for the terminal.

Another feature that is "very exciting or effective":http://idioms.thefreedictionary.com/kick+ass is the embedded languages.  You can have CSS and JS inside of HTML or Language-X inside of Language-Y.
